Question 1
In the below elements, which of them are values or an expression?
Values can be integers or strings, and expressions are mathematical operators.

Elements:

Copy
*
'hello'
-87.8
-
/
+
6
Solution:

Values:

'hello' (string)

-87.8 (float)

6 (integer)

Expressions:

* (multiplication operator)

- (subtraction operator)

/ (division operator)

+ (addition operator)

Question 2
What is the difference between a string and a variable?

Solution:

A string is a sequence of characters enclosed in quotes (e.g., 'hello'). It is a data type used to represent text.

A variable is a named location in memory used to store data. It can hold values of different data types, such as strings, integers, or floats.

Question 3
Describe three different data types.

Solution:

Integer: A whole number, positive or negative, without a decimal point (e.g., 10, -5).

Float: A number with a decimal point (e.g., 3.14, -0.5).

String: A sequence of characters enclosed in quotes (e.g., 'hello', "Python").

Question 4
What is an expression made up of? What do all expressions do?

Solution:

An expression is made up of values, variables, operators, and function calls.

All expressions evaluate to a single value. For example, 2 + 3 is an expression that evaluates to 5.

Question 5
This is an assignment statement: spam = 10. What is the difference between an expression and a statement?

Solution:

An expression evaluates to a value (e.g., 2 + 3 evaluates to 5).

A statement performs an action, such as assigning a value to a variable (e.g., spam = 10).

Question 6
After running the following code, what does the variable bacon contain?

python
Copy
bacon = 22  
bacon + 1  
Solution:
The variable bacon will still contain 22. The expression bacon + 1 evaluates to 23, but it does not change the value of bacon unless reassigned (e.g., bacon = bacon + 1).

Question 7
What should the values of the following two terms be?

python
Copy
'spam' + 'spamspam'  
'spam' * 3  
Solution:

'spam' + 'spamspam' evaluates to 'spamspamspam' (string concatenation).

'spam' * 3 evaluates to 'spamspamspam' (string repetition).

Question 8
Why is eggs a valid variable name while 100 is invalid?

Solution:

eggs is a valid variable name because it starts with a letter and contains only alphanumeric characters.

100 is invalid because variable names cannot start with a digit.

Question 9
What three functions can be used to get the integer, floating-point number, or string version of a value?

Solution:

int(): Converts a value to an integer.

float(): Converts a value to a floating-point number.

str(): Converts a value to a string.

Question 10
Why does this expression cause an error? How can you fix it?

python
Copy
'I have eaten ' + 99 + ' burritos.'
Solution:

The expression causes an error because you cannot concatenate a string ('I have eaten ') with an integer (99) directly.

To fix it, convert the integer to a string using str():

python
Copy
'I have eaten ' + str(99) + ' burritos.'
This will evaluate to: 'I have eaten 99 burritos.'